
NOTE: the tutorial that these notes come from utilize Java

Topics Covered:
    1. What are data structures and algorithms?
    2. Stack Data Structures
    3. Queue Data Structures
    4. Priority Queue Data Structures
    5. Linked Lists
    6. Dynamic Arrays
    7. Linked Lists vs Dynamic Arrays
    8. Big O Notation
    9. Linear Search
    10. Binary Search
    11. Interpolation Search
    12. Bubble Sort
    13. Selection Sort
    14. Insertion Sort
    15. Recursion
    16. Merge Sort
    17. Quick Sort
    18. Hash Tables
    19-21. Graphs
    22. Depth First Search
    23. Breadth First Search
    24. Tree Data Structures
    25. Binary Search Trees
    26. Tree Traversal
    27. Execution Time

--- 1. What are data structures and algorithms? ---

    Data Structure - a named location that can be used to store and organize data
    Algorithm ------ a collection of steps to solve a problem

--- 2. Stack Data Structures ---

    Stack - LIFO (last-in first-out) data structure. Stores objects into a sort of "vertical tower"
    
    Methods:
        push() --- add to the top
        pop() ---- remove from the top
        peek() --- displays what's at the top of the stack
        empty() -- sees if the stack is empty
        search() - look for data in a stack
    
    These data structures can run out of memory.

    Uses:
        1. Undo/Redo features in text editors
        2. Moving back/forward through browser history
        3. Backtracking algorithms (maze, file directories)
        4. Calling functions (call stack)

--- 3. Queue Data Structures ---

    Queue - FIFO (first-in first-out) data structure. A collection designed for holding elements prior to processing. Linear data structure
    
    Methods:
        offer() ---- enqueue, adding to the tail
        poll() ----- dequeue, removing from the head
        peek() ----- displays what's at the head of the queue
        isEmpty() -- checks if the queue is empty or not
        size() ----- displays the size of the queue
        contains() - checks if a certain data exists in the queue

    Uses:
        1. Keyboard buffer (letters should appear on the screen in the order they're pressed)
        2. Printer queue (print jobs should be completed in order)
        3. Used in LinkedLists, PriorityQueues, Breadth-first search

--- 4. Priority Queue Data Structures ---

    Priority Queue - a FIFO data structure that serves elements with the highest priorities first before elements with lower Priority
    
    Puts the data in ascending/alphabetical (default) or descending/reverse alphabetical (reverse) order.

--- 5. Linked Lists ---

    Linked Lists - stores Nodes in two parts (data + address). Nodes are in non-consecutive memory locations. Elements are linked using pointers
                       
                       Singly Linked List                                        Doubly Linked List (more memory)
          Node                Node                Node                         Node                           Node
    [data | address] -> [data | address] -> [data | address]        [address | data | address] <-> [address | data | address]

    Similar to arrays, but...
        Pros - easier to insert and delete data than arrays
        Cons - harder to locate data than arrays

    Has the same methods as stacks and queues.
        push()
        pop()
        offer()
        poll()
        peek()

    Has some unique methods.
        add() --------- adds data at a specific index
        addFirst() ---- adds data at the start
        addLast() ----- adds data at the end
        remove() ------ removes data
        removeFirst() - removes the starting data
        removeLast() -- removes the ending data
        peekFirst() --- displays the starting data
        peekLast() ---- displays the ending data
        indexOf() ----- finds the data at the index

    Advantages:
        1. Dynamic data structure (allocates needed memory while running)
        2. Insertion and deletion of Nodes is easy. O(1)
        3. No/Low memory waste

    Disadvantages:
        1. Greater memory usage (additional pointer)
        2. No random access of elements (no index [i])
        3. Accessing/Searching elements is more time consuming. O(n)

    Uses:
        1. Implement stacks/queues
        2. GPS navigation
        3. Music playlist

--- 6. Dynamic Arrays ---

    Dynamic Array - a resizable, contiguous data structure that automatically grows or shrinks in size as elements are added or removed

    Methods:
        add()
        insert()
        delete()
        search()
        grow()
        shrink()
        isEmpty()
        toString()
        size()
        capacity()


    Advantages:
        1. Random access of elements O(1)
        2. Good loyalty of reference and data cache utilization
        3. Easy to insert/delete at the end

    Disadvantages:
        1. Wastes more memory
        2. Shifting elements is time consuming O(n)
        3. Expanding/Shrinking the array is time consuming O(n)

--- 7. Linked Lists vs Dynamic Arrays ---

    Linked Lists are faster at...
        removing/adding the first element

    Dynamic Arrays are faster at...   
        getting an element
        removing/adding the middle element
        adding/removing the last element

--- 8. Big O Notation ---

    Big O Notation - describes the performance of an algorithm as the amount of data increases
    
    "How code slows as data grows."
    Machine independent (# of steps to completion).
    Ignore smaller operations O(n + 1) -> O(n).
    n = amount of data (it's a variable like x).
    Graph: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMUe3zFhM5c&list=PLZPZq0r_RZON1eaqfafTnEexRzuHbfZX8&index=8

    Different runtime complexities:
        O(1) ------- constant time
            random access of an element in an array
            inserting at the beginning of linkedlist
        O(log n) --- logarithmic time
            binary search
        O(n) ------- linear time
            looping through elements in an array
            searching through a linkedlist
        O(n log n) - quasilinear time
            quick sort
            merge sort
            heap sort
        O(n^2) ----- quadratic time
            insertion sort
            selection sort
            bubble sort
        O(n!) ------ factorial time
            Traveling Salesman Problem

--- 9. Linear Search ---

    Linear Search - iterate through a collection one element at a time

    Runtime complexity of O(n).

    Advantages:
        1. Fast for searches of small to medium data sets
        2. Does not need to be sorted
        3. Useful for data structures that do not have random access (Linked List)

    Disadvantages:
        1. Slow for large data sets

--- 10. Binary Search ---

    Binary Search - a search algorithm that finds the position of a target value within a sorted array. Half of the array is eliminated during each "step"

    Runtime complexity of O(log n).

    Advantages:
        1. Great for really large data sets
    
    Disadvantages:
        1. The array needs to be sorted
        2. A bit less efficient with smaller data sets

--- 11. Interpolation Search ---

    Interpolation Search - improvement over binary search best used for "uniformly" distributed data. "Guesses" where a value might be based on calculated probe results.
                       If probe is incorrect, search area is narrowed, and a new probe is calculated

    Runtime complexity of O(log(log(n))) (average case) or O(n) (worst case, values increase exponentially).

--- 12. Bubble Sort ---

    Bubble Sort - pairs of adjacent elements are compared, and the elements swap if they are not in order

    Runtime complexity of O(n^2).

    Advantages:
        1. Very simple algorithm

    Disadvantages:
        1. Terrible for large data sets

--- 13. Selection Sort ---

    Selection Sort - search through an array and keep track of the minimum value during each iteration. At the end of the iteration, we swap variables

    Runtime complexity of O(n^2).

    Advantages:
        1. Very simple algorithm

    Disadvantages:
        1. Terrible for large data sets

--- 14. Insertion Sort ---

    Insertion Sort - after comparing elements to the left. Shift elements to the right to make room to insert a value

    Runtime complexity of O(n^2).

    Advantages:
        1. Less steps than Bubble Sort
        2. Best case is O(n) compared to Selection Sort O(n^2)

    Disadvantages:
        1. Terrible for large data sets

--- 15. Recursion ---

    Recursion - apply the result of a procedure to a procedure

    A recursive method calls itself. Can be a substitute for iteration.
    Divide a problem into sub-problems of the same type as the original.
    Commonly used with advanced sorting algorithms and navigating trees.

    Call Stack - a stack data structure that stores information about the active subroutines of a computer program. This kind of stack is also known as
                 an execution stack, program stack, control stack, run-time stack, or machine-stack, and is often shortened to just "the stack"

                    Iteration                       vs                      Recursion
    Implementation - uses loops                         Implementation - calls itself
    State ---------- control index, (int steps = 0)     State ---------- parameter values, walk(int steps)
    Progression ---- moves toward value in condition    Progression ---- converge towards base case        
    Termination ---- index satisfies condition          Termination ---- base case = true
    Size ----------- more code, less memory             Size ----------- less code, more memory
    Speed ---------- faster                             Speed ---------- slower


    Advantages:
        1. Easier to read/write
        2. Easier to debug

    Disadvantages:
        1. Sometimes slower
        2. Uses more memory

--- 16. Merge Sort ---

    Merge Sort - recursively divide array in two, sort, re-combine

    Runtime complexity of O(n log n).

    Space complexity of O(n), which is greater than Bubble, Selection, and Insertion Sort which have a space complexity of O(1).

    Advantages:
        1. Faster than Bubble, Selection, and Insertion Sort

    Disadvantages:
        1. Takes up more space than Bubble, Selection, and Insertion Sort

--- 17. Quick Sort ---

    Quick Sort - moves smaller elements to the left of a pivot. Recursively divides array in two partitions.
             The pivot is typically at the end of the array, but can be located at the beginning or middle

    Runtime complexity of O(n log n) (best and average case) or O(n^2) (worst case if already sorted).

    Space complexity of O(log n) due to recursion.

    Advantages:
        1. Faster than Bubble, Selection, and Insertion Sort

    Disadvantages:
        1. Takes up more space than Bubble, Selection, and Insertion Sort

--- 18. Hash Tables ---

    Hash Table - a data structure that stores unique keys to values (ex. <int, str>). Each key/value pair is known as an Entry.
             FAST insertion, look up, deletion of key/value pairs. Not ideal for small data sets, great with large data sets

    Hashing --- takes a key and computes an integer (formula will vary based on key & data type). In a Hash Table, we use the hash %
              capacity to calculate an index number ( key.hashCode() % capacity = index )
    Bucket ---- an indexed storage location for one or more Entries. Can store multiple Entries in case of a collision (linked similarly to a Linked List)
    Collision - hash function generates the same index for more than one key. Less Collisions = More Efficiency

    Runtime complexity of O(1) (best case) or O(n) (worst case).

--- 19-21. Graphs ---

    Graph - a nonlinear aggregation of nodes and edges. Can be used to model a network

    Node ------ also known as a vertex, may contain some piece of data
    Edge ------ a connection between two nodes
    Adjacency - when two nodes are connected via edge

    Undirected Graph - edges are two way
    Directed Graph --- edges are one way

    Two popular ways to represent a graph:
        Adjacency Matrix - a 2D array with the nodes at the top and side populated with 1s or 0s, depending if there's adjacency
            Time complexity:  O(1)
            Space complexity: O(V^2)
        Adjacency List --- array of linked lists with each element having a node with their adjacencies
            Time complexity:  O(V)
            Space complexity: O(V + E)

--- 22. Depth First Search ---

    Depth First Search (DFS) - a search algorithm for traversing a tree or graph data structure (utilizes a stack)

    Procedure:
        1. Pick a route
        2. Keep going until you reach a dead end, or a previously visited node
        3. Backtrack to last node that has unvisited adjacent neighbors

    Better if destination is on average far from the start.
    Children are visited before siblings.
    More popular for games/puzzles.

--- 23. Breadth First Search ---

    Breadth First Search (BFS) - a search algorithm for traversing a tree or graph data structure (utilizes a queue)

    Procedure:
        When compared to DFS, BFS is done one "level" at a time rather than one "branch" at a time.

    Better if destination is on average close to start.
    Siblings are visited before children.

--- 24. Tree Data Structures ---

    Tree - a non-linear data structure where nodes are organized in a hierarchy (ex. file explorer, databases, DNS, HTML DOM)

    Root Node --- top of the tree with only outgoing edges
    Leaf Node --- bottom of the tree with only incoming edges
    Branch Node - middle of the tree with outgoing and incoming edges
    Parent ------ any node with outgoing edges
    Child ------- any node with incoming edges
    Siblings ---- nodes that share a parent node
    Subtree ----- a smaller tree held within a larger tree
    Size -------- number of nodes
    Depth ------- number of edges below the root node
    Height ------ number of edges above the furthest leaf node

--- 25. Binary Search Trees ---

    Binary Tree -------- a tree data structure comprised of nodes with no more than two children nodes
    Binary Search Tree - similar to the binary tree structure, but parent nodes are greater than the left child node and less than the right child node
    
    Benefit:          easy to locate a node when they are in this order
    Time complexity:  O(log n) (best case) or O(n) (worst case)
    Space complexity: O(n)

--- 26. Tree Traversal ---

    Tree Traversal - the process of visiting all nodes of a tree

    Types of tree traversal methods:
        In-order --- left -> root -> right
        Post-order - left -> right -> root (from leaf to root)
        Pre-order -- root -> left -> right (common for copying trees)

--- 27. Execution Time ---

    Java - System.nanoTime()
