
Topics Covered:
    1. What is NPM? How is it related to Node?
    2. NPM vs Yarn
    3. Installing NPM and Node on your system
    4. Why Node versioning is required?
    5. Managing multiple Node versions using `n`
    6. What is an NPM module?
    7. How does NPM install module?
    8. package.json file
    9. Exploring package.json
    10. Installing module
    11. Removing module
    12. Local v/s global modules
    13. Semantic Versioning
    14. All about package-lock.json
    15. Semantic versioning in package.json
    16. dependencies
    17. devDependencies
    18. peerDependencies
    19. What are NPM scripts
    20. All about NPX
    21. Changing global packages installation location
    22. NPM cache and purging

--- 1. What is NPM? How is it related to Node? ---

    npm used to be independent until it was bought by GitHub, which is owned by Microsoft.
    The standard package manager for node.
    npm is like a repository for open-source packages.
    npm acts as a command line tool to fetch, install, manage, update, ... packages in the node application.

--- 2. NPM vs Yarn ---

                 npm                                 Yarn

        a node package manager ------------- a node package manager
          owned by Microsoft ----------------- owned by Facebook
    bit faster on production server --- bit faster on development server

--- 3. Installing NPM and Node on your system ---

    Installation Process (Windows):
        1. Install node and npm (https://nodejs.org/en/download)

--- 4. Why Node versioning is required? ---

    Node versioning is simultaneously having multiple node versions on a system. This may be preferable for three reasons:
        1. allows developers to utilize specific node versions for unique use cases
        2. reduces chances of crashes since some node packages require certain node versions
        3. ability to experiment with different node versions

--- 5. Managing multiple Node versions using `n` ---

    'n' isn't supported on Windows. Instead, Windows needs the following to manage node versions: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm.

--- 6. What is an NPM module? ---

    When a dev installs a node package, the source (located in npm's infrastructure) is extracted and placed in a "node_modules" folder.
    Most of the time, code within a package isn't the same between GitHub and npm.

--- 7. How does NPM install module? ---

    When the npm install command is sent in the terminal, the following happens:
        1. npm takes the package's tarball URL from npm's database
        2. executes the URL, which downloads the package and its contents

--- 8. package.json file ---

    npm manages node modules/packages through the package.json file.
    The file is like a record of all the packages installed which npm uses to remember and manage them.

--- 9. Exploring package.json ---

    When the command "npm init" is ran and all questions are answered, a fresh package.json file is created.
    The following is an example new package.json file:
        {
            "name": "playground",
            "version": "1.0.0",
            "description": "",
            "license": "ISC",
            "author": "",
            "type": "commonjs",
            "main": "playground.js",
            "scripts": {
                "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
            }
        }

--- 10. Installing module ---

    "npm install packageName" and "npm i packageName" in the terminal installs node modules.
    If the dev attempts to install a package that's already installed, npm will update and audit the installed package instead.

--- 11. Removing module ---

    "npm remove packageName" and "npm uninstall packageName" deletes a package from a project.

--- 12. Local v/s global modules ---

    The most common use of a global module is for command line applications.
    "npm i packageName --global" and "npm i packageName -g" in the terminal installs node modules globally.
    Global modules should be utilized for personal use and convenience, not for sharing and/or production.
    "npm root -g" displays the path of the global modules folder.

            Local Modules                     Global Modules
    installed in a specific path --- installed anywhere and everywhere

--- 13. Semantic Versioning ---

    Every npm package has a standardized version template called semantic versioning.
    Semantic versioning is a standard for versioning packages (MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH).
        MAJOR - a version when you make incompatible API changes ---------------------- breaking changes
        MINOR - a version when you add functionality in a backwards compatible manner - no breaking changes
        PATCH - a version when you make backwards compatible bug fixes ---------------- no breaking changes (99.99% of the time)
    npm follows semantic versioning, but npm doesn't enforce it on packages. In other words, packages could lie within their semantic versioning.

--- 14. All about package-lock.json ---

    In package.json, the package version states what version the package is allowed to update to when it's installed (MAJOR, MINOR, PATCH). When the package is
    actually installed/updated, the cascading package.json files are created/updated to the most up-to-date version of the package as allowed by package.json. However,
    semantic versioning isn't usually followed by the packages, so updating something that seems to be minor could be a breaking change. Thus, package-lock.json files
    exist to prevent something like this from happening by essentially taking a screenshot of all packages and their versions and "locking it" within its file so that
    the collection of package versions we know work together are used throughout development and production without having anything burn up.

--- 15. Semantic versioning in package.json ---

    In package.json, the package and version states what can be updated based on semantic versioning.
        NOTE: x means update that part to the most current one
        "packageName": "*" ------------------> x.x.x
        "packageName": "^MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH" -> MAJOR.x.x
        "packageName": "~MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH" -> MAJOR.MINOR.x
        "packageName": "MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH" --> MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH

--- 16. dependencies ---

    "npm install" installs/updates all packages under dependencies listed in the package.json file in the local project

--- 17. devDependencies ---

    Dev dependencies are those that are used only in development, not in production (ensure that these packages aren't needed in production).
    "npm install packageName --save-dev" installs a package as a dev dependency.
    In development, the "npm install" command will install/update all packages listed under dependencies and devDependencies. However, while in production, 
    only the packages under dependencies will be installed/updated.

--- 18. peerDependencies ---

    Peer dependencies are not needed when working on your own app; it's needed when creating npm packages.
    Within some packages, a peer dependency can be found within the package.json file. What the peer dependency is saying is that it needs the packages listed
    under itself for the package to run. If those packages aren't already in the project, then a warning will be displayed instead of automatically 
    installing the packages.

--- 19. What are NPM scripts ---

    In a script, the key is the script name, and the value is a bash/terminal script.
    npm supports many script names, which are documented here: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/scripts. What these specific npm script names do
    is run the terminal script in a way that the npm script name states.
    Custom scripts can also be made with custom script names and terminal scripts.
    Example npm script from package.json that is executed in the terminal with "npm test" or "npm run test":
        "scripts": {
            "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
        }
    Example custom script from package.json that is executed in the terminal with "npm run custom_name":
        "scripts": {
            "custom_name": "custom script"
        }

--- 20. All about NPX ---

    npx allows devs to run npm tools without installing them globally.
    Two ways to execute installed package files:
        1. Create a custom script that runs the package file command
        2. Enter "npx packageFileCommand"
    npx can also execute package files globally with the same command. It does this by installing the package, runs it, and then removes it.

--- 21. Changing global packages installation location ---

    "npm config ls -l" lists all of the configurations of npm.
    "npm config get prefix" displays where the global packages are stored.
    "pwd" prints the working data tree/the current selected path.
    "npm config set prefix newPath" sets the new address of where the global modules will be stored.

--- 22. NPM cache and purging ---

    Caching is a technique of storing some modules locally so that npm knows what packages and their versions are already installed.
    "~/.npm" is where all cache content is stored.
    Removing the npm can be useful for saving disk space and if the dev believes one of the caches is interrupting npm package installation.
    "npm cache clean" or "npm cache clean --force" deletes the npm cache.
